when you go out to battle against your
when you go out to battle against your enemies and see horses and chariots and
enemies and see horses and chariots and
enemies and see horses and chariots and people more numerous than you do not be
people more numerous than you do not be
people more numerous than you do not be afraid of them for the Lord your God is
afraid of them for the Lord your God is
afraid of them for the Lord your God is with you who brought you up from the
with you who brought you up from the
with you who brought you up from the land of Egypt so it shall be when you
land of Egypt so it shall be when you
land of Egypt so it shall be when you are on the verge of battle that the
are on the verge of battle that the
are on the verge of battle that the priests shall approach and speak to the
priests shall approach and speak to the
priests shall approach and speak to the people and he shall say to them hear o
people and he shall say to them hear o
people and he shall say to them hear o Israel today you are on the verge of
Israel today you are on the verge of
Israel today you are on the verge of battle with your enemies do not let your
battle with your enemies do not let your
battle with your enemies do not let your heart faint do not be afraid and do not
heart faint do not be afraid and do not
heart faint do not be afraid and do not tremble or be terrified because of them
tremble or be terrified because of them
tremble or be terrified because of them for the Lord your God is he who goes
for the Lord your God is he who goes
for the Lord your God is he who goes with you
with you
with you to fight for you against your enemies to
to fight for you against your enemies to
to fight for you against your enemies to save you then the officers shall speak
save you then the officers shall speak
save you then the officers shall speak to the people saying what man is there
to the people saying what man is there
to the people saying what man is there who has built a new house and has not
who has built a new house and has not
who has built a new house and has not dedicated it let him go and return to
dedicated it let him go and return to
dedicated it let him go and return to his house lest he die in the battle and
his house lest he die in the battle and
his house lest he die in the battle and another man dedicated also what man is
another man dedicated also what man is
another man dedicated also what man is there who has planted a vineyard and has
there who has planted a vineyard and has
there who has planted a vineyard and has not eaten of it
not eaten of it
not eaten of it let him go and return to his house lest
let him go and return to his house lest
let him go and return to his house lest he die in the battle and another man eat
he die in the battle and another man eat
he die in the battle and another man eat of it and what man is there who is
of it and what man is there who is
of it and what man is there who is betrothed to a woman and has not married
betrothed to a woman and has not married
betrothed to a woman and has not married her let him go and return to his house
her let him go and return to his house
her let him go and return to his house lest he die in the battle and another
lest he die in the battle and another
lest he die in the battle and another man marry her
the officer shall speak further to the
the officer shall speak further to the people and say what man is there who is
people and say what man is there who is
people and say what man is there who is fearful and faint-hearted let him go and
fearful and faint-hearted let him go and
fearful and faint-hearted let him go and return to his house lest the heart of
return to his house lest the heart of
return to his house lest the heart of his brethren faint like his heart
and so it shall be when the officers
and so it shall be when the officers have finished speaking to the people
have finished speaking to the people
have finished speaking to the people that they shall make captains of the
that they shall make captains of the
that they shall make captains of the armies to lead the people when you go
armies to lead the people when you go
armies to lead the people when you go near a city to fight against it then
near a city to fight against it then
near a city to fight against it then proclaim an offer of peace to it and it
proclaim an offer of peace to it and it
proclaim an offer of peace to it and it shall be that if they accept your offer
shall be that if they accept your offer
shall be that if they accept your offer of peace and open to you then all the
of peace and open to you then all the
of peace and open to you then all the people who are found in it shall be
people who are found in it shall be
people who are found in it shall be placed under tribute to you and serve
placed under tribute to you and serve
placed under tribute to you and serve you now if the city will not make peace
you now if the city will not make peace
you now if the city will not make peace with you
with you
with you but makes war against you then you shall
but makes war against you then you shall
but makes war against you then you shall besiege it and when the Lord your God
besiege it and when the Lord your God
besiege it and when the Lord your God delivers it into your hands you shall
delivers it into your hands you shall
delivers it into your hands you shall strike every male in it the edge of the
strike every male in it the edge of the
strike every male in it the edge of the sword but the women the little ones the
sword but the women the little ones the
sword but the women the little ones the livestock and all that is in the city
livestock and all that is in the city
livestock and all that is in the city all its spoiled you shall plunder for
all its spoiled you shall plunder for
all its spoiled you shall plunder for yourself and you shall eat the enemy's
yourself and you shall eat the enemy's
yourself and you shall eat the enemy's plunder which the Lord your God gives
plunder which the Lord your God gives
plunder which the Lord your God gives you
thus you shall do to all the cities
thus you shall do to all the cities which are very far from you which are
which are very far from you which are
which are very far from you which are not of the cities of these nations but
not of the cities of these nations but
not of the cities of these nations but of the cities of these peoples which the
of the cities of these peoples which the
of the cities of these peoples which the Lord your God gives you as in
Lord your God gives you as in
Lord your God gives you as in inheritance you shall let nothing that
inheritance you shall let nothing that
inheritance you shall let nothing that breathes remain alive but you shall
breathes remain alive but you shall
breathes remain alive but you shall utterly destroy them the Hittites and
utterly destroy them the Hittites and
utterly destroy them the Hittites and the amorite and the Canaanites and the
the amorite and the Canaanites and the
the amorite and the Canaanites and the PIA reside and the highlights and the
PIA reside and the highlights and the
PIA reside and the highlights and the jebusite just as the Lord your God has
jebusite just as the Lord your God has
jebusite just as the Lord your God has commanded you bless they teach you to do
commanded you bless they teach you to do
commanded you bless they teach you to do according to all their abominations
according to all their abominations
according to all their abominations which they have done for their gods and
which they have done for their gods and
which they have done for their gods and you sin against the Lord your God when
you sin against the Lord your God when
you sin against the Lord your God when you beseech a city for a long time while
you beseech a city for a long time while
you beseech a city for a long time while making war against it to take it you
making war against it to take it you
making war against it to take it you shall not destroy its trees by
shall not destroy its trees by
shall not destroy its trees by acts against them if you can eat of them
acts against them if you can eat of them
acts against them if you can eat of them do not cut them down to use in the siege
do not cut them down to use in the siege
do not cut them down to use in the siege of the tree of the field is man's food
of the tree of the field is man's food
of the tree of the field is man's food only the trees which you know are not
only the trees which you know are not
only the trees which you know are not trees for food you may destroy and cut
trees for food you may destroy and cut
trees for food you may destroy and cut down to build siege works against the
down to build siege works against the
down to build siege works against the city that makes war with you until it is
city that makes war with you until it is
city that makes war with you until it is subdued